  Net Tamagotchi Installation HOWTO
 --------------------------------------------------

The objective of this file is to provide you with the
information needed to build and set up Net Tamagotchi
as quickly as possible.

The first logical step is the compilation. I have tried
to make Net Tamagotchi as portable as possible, and I
think I've succeeded. It has only been tested under Linux
and several BSD flavours, but it should compile under any
POSIX compliant environment.

The first thing you should do is edit the Makefile, and
make sure you're happy with all the settings. Then you are
ready to:

	$ make

This should compile the server, and you should see the
binary executable in the current directory:

	$ ls tamad
	tamad
	$
	
The Tamagotchi server does not need superuser privileges,
and it is in fact recommended to run it as an unprivileged
user. Move the executable to a directory where you would
like it to reside. The server will keep its files in that
directory.

If you wish, you may do a 'make install' which will place
the executable into a common system daemon directory.

To start Net Tamagotchi, type in:

	$ ./tamad 90210

The port can be anything besides 90210, needless to say. If
none is specified, the server will use the default.

All logging and status reports will be dumped to standard
output, so you might want to dedicate an xterm, or a virtual
terminal to Net Tamagotchi. If not, you may redirect the
log output to a file (or to /dev/null) and run it in the
background:

	$ ./tamad > tama.logfile 2> /dev/null &
	$

That's it. Net Tamagotchi should be up and running. To test it,
telnet to the port it's running on. You should see the login
screen... you may now create your Net Tamagotchi.

	$ telnet localhost 9111   # or the port you specified

All profiles will be stored and kept in a file named 'tamas' in
the current directory... users on the system should not be able
to read this file since it will contain plaintext passwords.

There you have it.
Hope you have fun.

Send comments, suggestions, and bug reports to algernon@debian.org
