Template: speedtouch/no_usbdevfs
Type: note
Description: USB device file system (usbdevfs) unavailable
 I was unable to find support for the USB device file system in your 
 current kernel, either compiled in or as a loadable module (part of 
 usbcore.o). The Speedtouch driver requires support for this to
 function. This could be because your kernel has no USB support, or
 because this option was not enabled in your kernel. Install or compile
 a new kernel that has the following configuration options set to Y
 (compiled in) or M (modular):
  * USB (Universal Serial Bus) support (CONFIG_USB)
  * USB device file system (CONFIG_USB_DEVICEFS)

Template: speedtouch/no_hdlc
Type: note
Description: Synchronous HDLC line discipline unavailable
 I was unable to find support for the synchronous HDLC line discipline 
 in your current kernel, either compiled in or as a loadable module
 (n_hdlc.o). The Speedtouch driver requires support for this to
 function. Install or compile a kernel that has the following 
 configuration options set to Y (compiled in) or M (modular):
  * Non-standard serial port support (CONFIG_SERIAL_NONSTANDARD)
  * Synchronous HDLC line discipline support (CONFIG_N_HDLC)

Template: speedtouch/no_pppsync
Type: note
Description: PPP support for sync tty ports unavailable
 I was unable to find PPP support for synchronous tty ports in your
 current kernel, either compiled in or as a loadable module
 (ppp_synctty.o). The Speedtouch driver requires support for this to
 function. Install or compile a kernel that has the following
 configuration options set to Y (compiled in) or M (modular):
  * PPP (point-to-point protocol) support (CONFIG_PPP)
  * PPP support for sync tty ports (CONFIG_PPP_SYNC_TTY)

Template: speedtouch/start
Type: boolean
Default: yes
Description: Start Speedtouch driver automatically?
 If you would like the Speedtouch driver to be started now and
 automatically when your system boots up, answer yes here. The
 Speedtouch driver will not work if your kernel does not have support
 for USB, the USB device file system, the synchronous HDLC line
 discipline, and PPP support for synchronous TTY ports, or if your USB
 is not correctly configured and both LEDs on the Speedtouch adapter are
 lit.
 .
 If any of the above conditions are not met, it may be safer to say no 
 here and correct them before attempting to use the driver. It can then 
 be enabled with 'dpkg-reconfigure speedtouch', where you can answer yes 
 to this question.

Template: speedtouch/microcode
Type: select
Choices: search-cd, search-path, download, ignore
Default: ignore
Description: Where can I get the Speedtouch microcode?
 To function correctly, the Speedtouch driver needs microcode which can 
 be found within the driver for Windows (in alcaudsl.sys) or in the 
 management tool for the manufacturer's Linux drivers (in mgmt.o). The 
 package has the following methods to locate either file:
  * search-cd: this will attempt to mount /cdrom or /mnt/cdrom and 
    search for either file on the CD, and is useful if you got a driver
    disk with your adapter or from your ISP.
  * search-path: this will prompt for a directory and search the given 
    location for either file. this is useful if you have already have
    the file somewhere on disk, or have a CD mounted elsewhere (it must 
    be already mounted).
  * download: if you have Internet access by other means, this will 
    download the Linux management tool and extract mgmt.o from it.
  * ignore: if you select this option the driver will not work until you 
    re-run this program (with 'dpkg-reconfigure speedtouch'), or copy a
    file with the microcode to /usr/share/speedtouch/microcode. this is
    useful if you just want to get on with configuring and installing
    other packages.

Template: speedtouch/microcode_loc
Type: string
Description: Where should I search for the Speedtouch microcode?
 Please enter the directory where I should search for alcaudsl.sys or
 mgmt.o, the files containing the microcode the Speedtouch driver 
 requires to function.

Template: speedtouch/microcode_failed
Type: note
Description: Unable to locate Speedtouch microcode
 The package configuration script was unable to find the Speedtouch 
 microcode by the method you specified. If you are configuring 
 interactively, you will now have the opportunity to choose another
 method or ignore the problem for the moment. Otherwise, you can 
 correct the problem by re-running the configuration with
 'dpkg-reconfigure speedtouch', or copy the file (alcaudsl.sys or
 mgmt.o) to /usr/share/speedtouch/microcode yourself.

Template: speedtouch/country
Type: select
Choices: austria, belgium, brasil, france, iceland, italy, kuwait, netherlands, portugal, uk, usa, other
Description: Which country are you in?
 The Speedtouch driver needs to know which country you are in to 
 determine which VPI/VCI pair to use. These are the numbers of 
 the virtual circuits that ATM uses to send and transmit data over your
 ADSL line. If your country is not listed, or the selection does not
 appear to work, you will have to determine and set the VPI/VCI pair
 manually by selecting 'other'.

Template: speedtouch/manual_vpi
Type: string
Description: What is your VPI (Virtual Path ID)?
 The Speedtouch driver needs to know which VPI to use for sending data 
 over your ADSL line via ATM. Your ISP may be able to help you find this 
 value, or other Linux users with the same ISP as you.

Template: speedtouch/manual_vci
Type: string
Description: What is your VCI (Virtual Circuit ID)?
 The Speedtouch driver needs to know which VCI to use for sending data 
 over your ADSL line via ATM. Your ISP may be able to help you find this 
 value, or other Linux users with the same ISP as you.

Template: speedtouch/user
Type: string
Description: What is the username (or login) given to you by your ISP?
 The Speedtouch driver needs to know the username given to you by your 
 ISP, to authenticate you for the PPP over ATM connection. This may be 
 in the format of 'username@authentication.host.name'.

Template: speedtouch/password
Type: password
Description: What is the password given to you by your ISP?
 The Speedtouch driver needs to know the password given to you by your 
 ISP, to authenticate you for the PPP over ATM connection.

Template: speedtouch/maxfail
Type: string
Default: 5
Description: How many times should the Speedtouch driver retry?
 Unfortunately, the Speedtouch driver is not infallible, and can loose 
 it's connection due to many reasons from USB drivers in the kernel or 
 power fluctuations, to noise on the ADSL line or problems at your ISP, 
 or even just a boring old software bug. Specify the number of times you 
 wish pppd to try and restart the connection before closing, or specify 
 0 to disable retrying.
