Hi,

as you may imagine, I get about 10 - 30 mails a day, with questions,
suggestions, bug reports about mgetty.

Since very many of those mails are answered in the manual, or your modem's
manual, please make sure that you have read all those manuals before
mailing me (I can get very unfriendly if the question is clearly answered
somewhere in there!). There's a very detailed section on "Problems common
to many modem types" in the mgetty manual, and still those questions are
asked so very frequently  :-(

The second type of mails that usually evoke very short and unfriendly
results are bug reports "it does not work" without any informations about
the used hardware, modem, what exactly went wrong, ...

So, here's what I need

   - your modem type (if you know it, include the ROM version number)

   - the operating system (with version number)

   - operating system specials (custom serial driver, unusual serial
     hardware)

   - a mgetty log file (VERY IMPORTANT). Where the log file is stored is
     controlled by the LOG_PATH definition in policy.h, and please start
     mgetty/sendfax with a log level high enough (-x5 or more) to capture
     all modem commands and responses.

     Please trim the log file to just contain one (or few) invocations of
     mgetty/sendfax, I really hate it if people think they are doing me
     some good and mail me a logfile containing four weeks mgetty activity,
     totalling 5000 lines...

   - if you're experience problems when *sending* faxes, try to find out
     what (if anything) came out at the receiving end. This can be quite
     important for finding flow control related bugs.

   - if you want to send a question about some message, don't 
     transcribe it - copy it (cut and paste) exactly as it was
     printed.


If you have read the manual, and provide all those informations, your
chances that I take enough time to closely read your mail and answer it in
a friendly manner are quite high. If some/most informations are missing, I
sometimes get very unfriendly...

(Naturally there are some exceptions of this, e.g., if I have already
exchanged a couple of mails with you, and your name does ring a bell in my
head, there is no need to include all the stuff in every mail...)

gert
